Okay, as we look at how the college has come through the years, as well as the university, there's a lot of little incidences that probably, we could talk about a few of them, but you remember the time that they
the students found nitroglycerin in the chemistry department and they worked out in the field setting this off and then they decided that they'd set it off after the students had come back from we've never been licked.
So they got back in their dorm rooms and just beginning to settle down, it's about midnight, and they set off those charges over there in the core area
And they thought they were being attacked.
And it knocked out some windows, glasses, and it went out on the national news the next day.
A&M's, the ROT buildings have been bombed.
Of course, it wasn't at all.
It was just a prank on the part of those students.
But one of our children had been into a band thing.
And they came back that night.
And it was real late.
They'd been to Dallas.
And we heard that go off and it sounded like a sonic boom, you know.
But that was a, I remember they fined those guys and it seemed like they cost three of them about $2,900 each or something like that to replace the windows and damage they'd done to those trees.
Bob Rucker got in on those trees, you know.
And there'd been others like, I probably told you that story about
A student in my class, he pulled an all-nighter and tried to make a good grade and he made a 47.
And he went home and he called, went to his dorm room, he was in a corps, and went to his dorm room and he called his mother and she happened to be out in the field working and she didn't get his message but he wanted to come home.
But anyway, we'd talk to him and told him that he could still make it at A&M and encouraged him to stay here and develop better habits.
And if he would do well from then on, we'd make some adjustment for that.
Well, he ended up making an A in my class.
He stayed here at A&M.
and became deputy corps commander, and he won the Earl Rudder, you know, the Brown Earl Rudder Award as outstanding graduate that year, and then went on to law school, and then came back later, and he was a systems attorney for Texas A&M when they were requiring the right-of-way to build the road from the airport to the annex.
And he was the system's attorney legal officer in charge of that.
And when they had completed the highway construction, then they came, as the story is reported, and I don't know whether it's all facts or not, but it's reported to me that it is.
And if I asked the former student, he could probably tell me for sure, because that's how it came to me that he was telling this story.
When they asked, do you have any suggestions as to what we named this highway?
And he said, call it 47.
So they named it Texas 47.
And so I guess famous grades may not be a famous number, but it became something that will be here a long time.
And I can sure relate to that, and I sure old Bill will too, you know.
I thought that was good, and he was in the Corps.
And Squadron 6.
By the way, that's Rick Perry's old outfit, and that's John Sharp's old outfit, and Dr. Joe Townsend's old outfit.
So we had a lot of famous people come out of that outfit.
It doesn't exist anymore.
It was combined in another, and they combined in another, and so on and so forth.
There was another little incident over in biology I thought was sort of funny in a way, but they had a, you probably remember, they had a skeleton over there of a woman and they named her Maisie.
That was her name.
And this guy in charge of this anatomy class, he bragged about how many years they'd had Maisie there and nobody had ever taken Maisie.
So he was just setting it up for some students to do that.
And so one day he came in and Maisie was missing.
And so the word went out all over, and they were looking for that skeleton.
They couldn't find it.
They knew it had been used as a prank or something, but they never could find it.
So the College of Science wondered, how are we gonna ever get that back?
And that professor was embarrassed, you know, because these students had played that trick on him.
Well, one day,
I got this anonymous call and said we have something in a container we'd like for you to help us get it back to where it belongs.
But say we will not identify ourselves or we don't want to get in trouble but we feel like this ought to be restored.
So I talked to one of the deans of science over there and said that I could help them locate that and would they honor that request.
They say certainly because
We know it was just a prank, and if we get that back, that's all we want, and it'll be forgotten forever.
And so that all happened, and as far as I know, nobody ever knew how that happened or where it came about.
And the professor just walked back into where it was supposed to be.
There it is.
Where did it come from?
And nobody ever knew.
Did you speak to some students?
Oh, yes.
They learned a lesson, but at the same time, we kept it all confidential.
Now, were you just guessing as to which students might be the guilty parties?
No, they had to confess.
Oh, oh, oh, okay.
They had to confess, but they trusted me, and I trusted them.
And nobody to this day knows who they were except the student themselves.
And in fact, no harm was done.
Oh, not at all.
To any.
No, no.
But a professor just should not challenge an Aggie.
Did you ever have any good bull tried in your class or your lab?
No.
in a way you know I did some things to students like if somebody was fall asleep you do some real silly things like I sort of say to the class you know and let them get quiet and I point over here this guy's asleep and I'd say okay now let's do this simultaneously hit our hands together of course we would and that guy just jumped straight up you know I'd say what in the world happened you know oh we've done things like that just keep people going and
We're always doing things like that.
Sometimes you'll have a speaker come in.
I remember having a speaker come in one time on a topic, says, you're not supposed to be teaching this class.
I'm supposed to be teaching this class, and got the students.
They started running out of the front of the room, you know, but it was all just to wake them up, make sure that they were excited about being at A&M.
We finally calmed them down, you know, but little instances like that, which to me, it's disruptive, but at the same time, it...
It keeps them alert, and they don't forget it then.
I mean, then you can go, they're ready to learn, and you can teach them.
Now, down through the years, for undergraduate lecture class, what were your guidelines for the students about their classroom demeanor and appearance and attendance?
Well, I certainly want them to be there, and I want them to be alert, and I want them to be respectful to other students.
Now, what they wear, as long as it's not embarrassing, it's okay.
I mean, I don't make them shape up like a Corps cadet member.
Some people do, but I never have done that.
I've seen people have tried to do that, but where they'd have a cap on, and the professor would say, Mr. such-and-such, would you remove your cap?
And finally, the professor acts pretty rude to him, and the student will retort back,
If you want my cap off, you come and remove it.
And of course, that's a challenge to the professor.
And I would advise young professors, don't put yourself in a confrontation like that because it's embarrassing to everybody.
And sometimes professors will lock the doors on students that show up late.
Well, I don't do that either.
But I do want them to show respect to the class and to the professor and to their other students.
Do you have any rules about regular attendance?
What if they're absent regularly?
I want them to be there, and if they're there all the time, they will get extra credit, and they will get extra privileges.
And I call sometimes my golden pinata, you know, and they don't know what's going to be in that, but they've learned to be there, because that's many times...
being there as part of the grade and it counts and I just feel like that that's the way you ought to show up because if you get out in the business world
You ought to show up.
If you're going to work for somebody, you ought to show up and produce.
And that's what I expect them to come to class and be ready.
And you have more than 30 years here now.
When you started, what were the important, what was the most important course or courses you were teaching?
Well, at the time, I was teaching the graduate courses and then the
but primarily the graduate courses.
But in recent years, I've taught the introductory course, which last time I taught it, which was last year, we had 830 students, I think, during the year.
And now I'm teaching in land economics
real property valuations, which deals with our land resources.
But I've taught marketing courses, I've taught resource valuation courses at the graduate level, and I've taught the research methodology, production economics, and several other courses like econometrics and so on and so forth.
How has the teaching of those courses, how has the content emphasis in those courses changed in these three decades?
Well, the principles are, as far as the laws and the principles, are much the same.
The technology is different.
some of the sophistication in model building and with now that we can use the personal computers used to, you know, a computer the size you can have on your desk used to take up this whole room, you know.
So it allows us to do things with technology we can never do before.
Like we can model situations and we don't have to carry around a bunch of cards and you can run a simulated model and
and illustrate the principles real fast.
And students can have it interactive on the computer, like if they don't like your lecture or if they didn't understand it, they can go into the laboratory and click on and see the same things and then interact with it, plugging in numbers and things like that.
That's the big difference today than what it used to be.
And, of course, there have been some new topics added, like the environmental issues now and some of the legal issues that affect economics are there.
And those are the main changes.
If you were guessing what will be the changes in the next decade or so, what other points of emphases may we be adding?
I think definitely we have to look more carefully at the environmental issues.
as what we do, how does it impact those around us and the resources.
I think we're gonna have to be more concerned about how things integrate together, what we call a synergism, and also how that different dynamic groups work together.
And there's a big debate over public and private rights and over
how these shared relationships between public and private entities go about, say like economic development or developing land resources and working with people and institutions.
Institutions are gonna be a big thing and I think of institutions as
like how does this go about doing its thing like what are the rules what are the objectives and what are the outcomes and how do we go in and assess these so in a way uh institution has a rules of a going concern like Texas A&M has a set of rules so they're a going concern so they'd be an institution see compare the
the preparation, the capability of the students 30 years ago, a third of a century ago and now?
Okay.
As far as their scores on standardized test scores, they are higher now.
As far as their intellect, there's probably not really any difference.
In terms of sophistication with techniques, they are better at that.
As far as understanding individuals and society, they're not any advanced over that.
They know more about what's out there and they ought to with all the information available on the media and everything.
But I think the
They don't have any more maturity, in my opinion, than they had 30 years ago.
They still come with those same awkward decisions they have to make.
And even though they have more information and they're bombarded with it, they probably have to face issues earlier in their life.
I look at Aggies today, they're just a different group.
I look out at them, they got the same faces in terms of they're 18, 19, 20 year old.
They haven't changed a lot.
They still have those basic solid values.
They're a little more restless, you know, and they like Noah's a little more.
So you have to use more pizazz in the classroom, I think, things like that to get their attention.
You can't go up there and use a chalkboard and just lecture.
Some people do, but maybe half the class absent, you know.
You have to entertain them.
That's probably the, involve them and entertain them.
Get them involved, you know.
Now, in geographic background, is there any difference today of ag majors a third of a century ago?
Are they more urban?
Yes, a lot more urban.
That's right.
A lot more urban than they were.
And the students, though, are, and they're not familiar with a lot of the rural problems and things like that.
They just don't know about them.
And when you mention the word agriculture, some of them still don't understand that is the food and fiber and the places where we work and the resources we work with.
They just think of it as farming, which is a good part of it, but that's just a little bit of it, see.
And so there is an education on the part of the urban students, but they still have those basic values.
The land is important, people are important, the family farms, and the people need to live on the land and own the land.
They still have those kind of values.
Now, as you were going out and working with the high schools and the extension people, were you a comparative pioneer in that, or were you following the footsteps of some others?
Well, in Texas we probably were.
We were pioneering, but in other parts of the country they had had
They had shown an interest in high school programs.
Now, we took it another step.
We wanted to get into the science programs in high school, not just the ag programs.
and now they call it ag science.
We wanted to get into the science program because we thought with our College of Agriculture here with all these programs like biochemistry and nutrition and genetics, that we were a very comprehensive College of Agriculture.
And rather than just, you know, agronomy and entomology,
and Ag Engineering.
We had a broad program, you know, and that's, and as a result of that, we wanted to get to a larger group of potential students, see, and that worked.
All right, how did this get created?
How, what, who did y'all work through, work with?
Well, see, we have county agents all over the state.
Every county has access to a county agent, and what we ask them to do is to work with
the counselors and science teachers in the high schools and help get access to the students.
We even did this.
We got a ranking of the students with their names and addresses.
And so we were able to send them university information as well as college information.
So many of them were, we would give them to the science colleges, students' names and addresses, and we would get just thousands of young people that were outstanding.
All of them were fully qualified to be a college student, and most of them were qualified to get in A&M City.
Can you share any examples of some of those experiences, specific students?
Well, see, occasionally you would bring in students that didn't look like they had the ability to be at A&M.
And I remember a young man named Mike.
He's from the Valley.
And he came to A&M, and they gave him this provisional program.
He had a 650 SAT score.
And his name was Mike.
And I said, Mike, why are you at A&M?
And he said, well, I'd like to get a degree from A&M.
I said, well, you're going to have to work hard at it.
He said, well, nobody else believes that I can make it at A&M.
They think I'm dumb.
Look at my scores.
I said, well, let's see how you do in a class.
And so I had him in class.
And he made a B in the class.
And at the end of the class, we talked about it.
and he made his provisional admission and then he was here his sophomore year and he was here his junior year.
At the end of his junior years, he came to see me.
I was in the dean's office at the time and said, Dr. Lord, do you think I can graduate with honors?
And I looked at his record and I said, well, you can make one
one B, the rest you got, have to make all A's.
Well, he really could have made two, but I didn't want to make it too easy for him.
So the next May, when we graduated, in the part of the graduation ceremony, it shows a student's name to graduate with honor.
And Mike's name was in there, graduated honors.
Now, he had wanted to be a veterinarian when he came here.
And we were, you know, trying to relate to these students.
And I told him, well,
You know, it's going to be hard for you to become a veterinarian because you have to make all these high scores and everything.
But I said, let's don't worry about it.
If you can't be a veterinarian, you can be something better.
And he said, well, what's that?
I said, you could manage your own business and hire a veterinarian as a retainer.
Well, now it's been about 20 years from that, and he's in the valley, he managed a large cattle operation, and he has on a retainer, a veterinarian.
I thought, now that to me is a lot of progress.
I mean, if we see old Mike and somebody told him you're not capable of going to A&M, and today I don't believe that he'd get in.
There ought to be some way for that to happen, but under the A&M system now, you know, that's tough.
I'm not going to talk about that, though, because I've had others that have done that, too, that have come in under that provision and have graduated with a
not only cum laude, they've graduated summa cum laude, and they're out there as the epitome of what an Aggie should be, and yet I know today it'd be difficult for them to get in, and I don't know, I still believe there's some way they can get here, through a junior college or some route, and I hope we don't close that door to a person who has that much potential, and this guy here, Bobby, I was thinking about him,
He's now the CEO of a multi-billion dollar corporation, and yet he had a 630, and everybody told him he was so dumb that he was wasting his time at A&M, graduated at summa cum laude.
But what I'm trying to emphasize is if a young person believes they can do it, and they've got one more person that believes they can do it, and somebody will help them,
then they can make it.
And that's what I've always tried to do, is encourage people, not build up false hope, but try to let them know if you have a high goal, you're going to have to work hard to get there.
And I think that's, whether it's man or woman, I've seen women do the same thing as men have done.
and they have made it and their parents have been proud of them.
Turned out to be the greatest student in their whole department or college and get an award and yet at one time they were on the cast out heap, you know, they were ready to leave here.
But in recruiting these students you'll get all kinds.
We've had ones that
The university has told them, get out of town.
We don't care.
Highway six, run both ways.
Just take either one and go out of town.
And I've helped some of those students because I feel like if they came here in the first place, they had the potential of graduating.
And I know one now who goes around as a motivational speaker that I met one day on campus.
And he'd been told that, and he looked like he had lost his best friend.
He was just dragging his chin.
And I said to him, I said, would you like to talk to me?
And he said, I'd sure like to talk to somebody.
And that's what I told him.
And today, he's a motivational speaker going around and telling everybody.
He's done very, very well.
He's been on, like, on the former students' board of directors.
And he tells them that story about how this professor at A&M saw him on campus one day when he was at the lowest point of his life.
And they can't believe that today now that he's who he is.
But he says, like I would, the life is full of peaks and valleys.
And you just got to make sure there's more peaks than there are valleys.
And you do that by using the ability you have and those around you.
And you can do it.
You became part of the college administration when?
1970.
All right.
Describe how that came about and what your tasks were.
I was in the ag economics department and related well to students and they liked that and they heard about it over at the college level and they asked me if I'd come over and help them develop one of the best and biggest ag schools in the nation.
And so that's what I, that was my responsibility, to work with the programs and work with the faculty and work with the students to help get that to occur.
And it did.
And I was just a part of the team.
And I was glad to do that.
In those years, Dr. R.C.
Potts was the associate dean.
That's right.
Describe his part of that effort.
Well, his was primarily working with students and faculty and programs like curriculum and courses and things like that.
He would...
He would be like what we call an academic dean today.
Describe how he accomplished all that.
Oh, well, he was a character, you know, but he was a great guy.
He just believed that every person who attends Texas A&M should make a difference in society.
And I remember being a pallbearer at his funeral, and these outstanding gentlemen who were also pallbearers in that group were crying, and they were talking about,
how that he had made a difference in their life, how that he had told them to stand tall.
You owe Texas a lot because you got the privilege of going to A&M.
And I'll never forget that because he would always bring people up.
I mean, he'd see them and ask them, you know, you can do it.
Shape on up.
Get the help.
Get it done.
And he was just that kind of person.
And I think most anybody who met Dr. Potts knew he was all fired up, ready to encourage you to do your best, do your best.
Now, he had the ability to use both serious determination and humor, didn't he?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He was always getting into things.
Can you give any examples you remember of where he would use...
Well, yeah, he'd catch a person in an embarrassing situation and use it for good, you know, because he wouldn't let them forget it.
He was the kind of guy that would hold that over your head to make you perform.
And that happened several times.
I mean, he worked with guys like Eddie Joe Davis, you know, here.
Tommy Hartgrove, you know, who was captured in Columbia, you know.
He worked with those guys and, and like, uh, Leroy Shaffer down at Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo.
He worked with many people like that to help them better themselves and, uh, he'd catch them in all kinds of pranks and then he would use that to cause them to stay straight, you know, because they knew if they didn't walk the line they could leave A and M pretty fast, you know.
So he used that, uh,
better than anybody could without, I think, without really hurting the student.
He did it for good.
And at the college level, was he the person that the student would go talk to most often about what courses to take?
Well, at the college level, but of course in the departments you have faculty advisors.
And he would deal with issues like admission and in those days the dean could readmit people and once they got in by the university admissions office from then on it was up to the academic dean.
It's not that way anymore, you know.
Pretty well handled now, centralized.
Right, so you go over to the college level in 1970 and you're there how long?
Well, I stayed even long after Dr. Potts left and Dr. Suter came, and then because I was working with students and faculty in the student relations area, and I left in 69.
89, I'm sorry.
89.
So you're there 19 years.
19 years, yes.
And Kunkel was the dean for most of those years?
Yes, he was.
Let's see, he was, when I first came here, he was appointed dean not long after, but all the time I was there, up until the last few years when Dr. Arntzen came in.
Dr. Arntzen came in, he was the dean then for a while, while I was here, over there.
But then I went back to the Department of Ag Economics in about November of 89.
All right.
Then in the late 80s and 90s, who were the great members of this department then, the notable people?
Well, of course our policy center here was Dr. Knutson.
He's well recognized in ag policy across the nation.
And then Dr. Capps in demand theory.
He's Dr. Oral Capps.
I think he's an outstanding person here.
And then we have
Gary Williams with the Market Research Center here.
I think he's a fine person and then Dr. Nelson's the head of the department.
He's just an outstanding department head and he knows how to work with faculty and encourage them and he works with the college administration and university and so I think he is a real plus for our department too.
And there's other faculty too that are outstanding but
I mean, I have to go through the whole list.
There's about 60 of them, you know.
And as far as you know, in enrollment now, how does the Department of Economics compare with the other departments in the College of Agriculture?
Well, it's one of the big departments.
Animal science is the largest, and then ag economics is probably second.
We have about 800 undergraduates, and we have a sizable graduate program too.
I don't know the number there, but in excess of 100, you know.
And if we go across the United States, would we, to find a department that probably has a similar reputation to the Ag Economics Department here, we'd have to go to the Midwest or to the East Coast or the West Coast?
Yes, that's right.
California at Davis or North Carolina State or you'd have to go to like Purdue or Michigan State or Iowa State.
Illinois, one of those places, yeah.
They're all good programs, you know.
but I do believe we have more students than any one of those.
Let's see, what role, what's the relationship of the department to the Experiment Station and the Extension Service?
Well, our department has all three of those functions within it and see some people will have
joint appointments, just like I am with the experiment station and with the teaching program, see.
And then some people will have an extension appointment and a teaching appointment.
Normally you just have two.
I doubt if, they might have two or three people who've got all three appointments, but usually it's like teaching and research or teaching and extension.
And that's the land grant concept, where that you develop new knowledge, you teach it to people, and you take it to the people out in the state.
Give some examples of how that is advantageous to the department, to have all three working together.
Because it makes you, whatever you teach in a classroom, real, and whatever you develop research-wise,
can be made available to the students right then, not after a textbook or three or four years later.
You can walk out of the laboratory, so to speak, and walk into the classroom and share with them the latest discoveries or latest information.
And that really works, and then you have
extension people out in the state that could come into your classroom they could tell the students right there or go out at a field demonstration or whatever and see it firsthand it that that's a great concept of learning you know it's the more senses you use in teaching a subject matter it just causes more learning to occur you know that
Can you give some examples in your own experience of where you were able to put those opportunities into function?
Well, almost any of these projects we've done, like just a recent one on the fire ant issue, how it affects the urban setting.
Now, that's an environmental issue in the classroom, you talk about it, but as far as the public is concerned,
they want to know about it too and they share with us the information and then we go back and try to develop a program where that we can mitigate some of these problems and that's to me is just it just brings it all together and it's whenever you're talking or dealing with it or if you talk about like I like to deal with say land development or real estate development and I like to see that from a concept of just the
visual picture of what might happen and then see it take place one day and see how it all puts together and causes all the amenities and things to be built and cause the economic growth and development to take place.
So that works good though under the
land-grant concept, and the extension concept, and the research concept, and teaching all put together in one triad, that type of thing.
That's a land-grant concept.
I'm sure you know that, and A&M being a land-grant university.
I was good at that.
How does it more effectively serve the urban areas now?
Well, there's been more emphasis put on urban area in recent years.
And of course in our extension service we have the 4-H programs.
And those deal with urban as well as rural areas.
And with our nutrition programs, Extension Nutrition, that goes in those programs too.
And our home ecology and what we used to call home demonstration.
That's still our home economics.
That's still there.
But they look at it more as human ecology now.
And they look at the home and the needs in the home and the nutrition and all the health issues.
That, I think, makes a difference.
I think that makes a difference by approaching it from that standpoint, and the college has
an audience in the urban areas now because of the landscape horticulture and the environmental or urban entomology and urban forestry.
All these programs address that fringe area and also it moves on into the urban.
completely into the central cities, you know.
But as you know, as urbans grow out, they grow taking over ag areas so that we have to interact with that.
There's no doubt about that.
And I think agriculture has a lot to offer there in helping people as they move and integrate these to urban and rural.
I mean, that's happening all over.
If you look at Dallas and around Houston,
San Antonio or Austin or any of the big cities, you'll see that taking place.
And I think we have a lot to offer there on the College of Agriculture.
All right, now I've been looking at my notes.
What have we not touched on that we should have?
Okay, you've asked me pretty well about our college, about our department.
There's another, some little trivia things here I thought were pretty neat.
A&M has now they'll accept the ACT score and SAT score.
Now, I don't know whether we want to put that here or not, but I did the research behind that to show that they were equally significant predictors, so to speak.
And so the university agreed to accept both of those scores for admission.
And on the grade report that comes out at the end of the semester, they used to only put grade points on there and didn't put the grade point ratio on there.
So I asked the Red Star's office to do that, and they put the grade point ratio on there.
One place they have not put the grade point ratio, which I think they should, is on their transcript, and they haven't done that.
And I would suggest that you do that because it puts our students at a disadvantage when you're looking for national scholarships.
because people look at that and there may be a B in the PE or something like that and it distorts the grade point ratio if you don't have it calculated.
But anyway, that's a little insignificant thing.
In your experience, what are the most
important pre-admission scores.
Is it?
Or indicators?
Well, a lot of people have said how they've done in high school.
And I would say if you know the high schools you're talking about, that is a good predictor.
And, of course, I do believe that standardized test scores is another indicator, but I would like to know what they've done other than just go to class.
I mean, if they've been in activities and they've got good grades and they've got good scores, well, you have an automatic success.
I mean, it's just almost a sure bet.
But as anybody knows, the high school you're from and how you did in that high school,
and activities you had other than just academic, it helps determine whether you'll succeed or not, yeah.
But I don't, I think it's, some people look at the quarter of the class you graduate in, but I think it's just how you stack up.
I mean, if you're in that 90 plus category and you've been in a good high school, you can probably do that, do well enough to pass at A&M and succeed, yeah.
There's a, let's see, what else on here?
Oh, we started a new little club here, which is a student club called the Fire Club.
That's students who have an interest in careers in finance, insurance, and real estate, and law and environmental issues, which is, I think, is just right on the front row because it, within the last year, the United States government has passed a law that permits security firms, banks, and the insurance companies to deal in the same products.
So we need to have a student organization here that helps young people find early in their college career these opportunities available to them and not discover them after they get out of school or get to be a junior or senior.
And so we've got that recognized.
It's chartered now and it's recognized by the university organization, student organization.
That's one of the neat things that I've done in the last year here, which is
really good and it's uh it's doing fine it's a good club and uh let's see i don't see any uh other major things here other than you i'm sure you've heard the story of old bess and pat murphy jr haven't you you know how that a m had this uh mule here that would uh
She was an unusual phenomenon that if you bred her to a quarter horse, she would breed and she would have a quarter horse.
If you bred her to a donkey, a jack, she would have a mule and her name was Old Bess.
And for a long time, they had the stall for door for old Pat Murphy, Jr.
That's one of her famous colts.
It became a really good horse.
He's Pat Murphy, Jr., and he's sort of famous.
And they had his gate that used to be over there in one of those little Calvary buildings down there, to the stall.
They left it there for a long time, but they finally took it out.
And then for a long time in our museum here, they had the head of old Bess, that was the old mule, and neck, and they had the head and neck of Pat Murphy Jr.
And I've seen those heads, and the story was told that occasionally they'd get into the museum, students, Aggies would, and steal like old Bess there, particularly old Bess, head because she's an old floppy-eared mule, and they would
They would put that head, you remember, at the top of the windows of a professor's door, they had a window up there, it'd pull down, and they'd put that head up there and stuff it in there and put a big placard around his neck, and if they didn't like the professor, and it said, and the other end is inside.
Now, did that happen after you got here?
No, but I did see it after I got here.
I saw the, because by that time they had taken the heads out of the
old museum, which used to be over there where Langford Architecture Building is.
So that old Bess goes back maybe into the 20s?
I don't know how far she goes back, but I don't know whether Detloff mentioned it or not.
She had expired before you got here.
Oh yes, yes, yes, and so had Pat Murphy Jr., see.
But that's an interesting story, and it's a genetic phenomenon too, how that she, they said that she had both
reproductive tracts in her body, unusual genetic phenomena, because a mule is supposed to be sterile.
It's a hybrid, you know, and it's supposed to be sterile, but she was unusual.
And I also talked to the people
who used to work over at the, you remember Bob Logan, and his brother George, they used to work at the poultry farm, and his brother used to ride old Pat Murphy Jr., and they knew old Bess and everything when they were students here.
But that's an interesting story in itself.
I thought that was, you'd like that.
And I don't know where those heads are now, but I knew at one time Nat Kiefer had those old heads, and he could probably tell us where they are, you know, but I was really, I regret that they didn't maintain that in our museum forever, you know.
I thought you'd like that.
And you probably know that our cyclotron here, which is right next door,
was acquired and gotten here by John Calhoun and Bob Cochran.
They're the two guys that worked with a congressman in Washington to get that nuclear reactor over there.
I thought that was good.
You know Bob in our Rotary Club, yeah?
He's good there.
I had another thing that happened to you.
This is just with a student.
She was in high school.
in a big high school in Houston, and she was the drum major and student body president, and she wanted, I knew her sister here, and she wanted to come and visit, like you would come a senior day, so, you know, where they can have a college day, so she came and visited with me, and I visited with her,
and talked with her about our college and about the university and about our department.
Well, I didn't know it, but she came from that big high school that she was going to do this and became a major in ag economics.
And then about three years ago at Christmas, I got a letter from her
And I helped her like for law school and letters and things like that.
And she wrote me a letter and said that she wanted to thank me because every turn that she had made in her life, I was there to help her.
And that what she did at A&M and law school and today, she's putting it all to work because she wanted to use that environmental law issues and she wanted to use the agribusiness aspects.
And today she is an attorney for environmental compliance for a large oil company that also has a lot of agribusiness.
And so she says, everything that she's done, it just fits to a T. And I thought, oh, man.
Here I visited when she was a high school
And she was a drama major and student body president.
And then for her to tell me all these things that happened made me feel like that made my day.
Made my day.
So when you touch a student's life, you ought to realize that it will make a difference.
And you should not hurt them.
You should help them.
And that's what I've always...
tried to emphasize to all their young faculty as well as to myself to make a difference and a positive difference, a good difference.
Now another thing we did here to help get all those students interested in our A&M and also in our college, we had career days.
Now we used to have those career days, only agriculture and engineering had those career days initially.
And I was, I was a chair of that
committee for 19 years and we ended up sometimes we'd have like 5,000 young people come here and we'd visit over like in Zachary and had all those exhibits and everything but those days now they do have some some career days now but I believe they call them something different than that now but that was another good way of students learning about A&M.
How could we, in the future, increase our ability to make prospective students better aware of A&M?
What else could we do?
Well, we have these centers, as you probably know, that are located like in Houston and San Antonio.
I think we can use the internet a lot better for that purpose, just like let students plug in at A&M and find out, well, just explore into those areas.
What would I do?
You can put up a lot of animated stuff and a lot of information there that would allow them to explore this if we just had it
on a web page where that they could say, okay, I want to go into this area at A&M.
Click, click, and there it would pop up and, well, tell me, what would I do?
Click, click, give me some examples.
Give me some names of some former students.
It all just click, click.
We could do that.
That would help.
I would think that we could do that.
I haven't tried to do that, and I don't know the university is doing that.
But I want us to keep trying to tell people about our programs and about A&M because it's important that we inform people and we join in that selection process rather than them coming just to us.
I just feel like we need to be a part of it.